# Steam Game Data Analysis

This is a repository for a Python project analyzing what makes a popular 
game on the platform Steam. 

## Summary

In this project, we gathered data from Steam's "Most Played" list in an effort 
to answer the question: "What makes a popular game?". We analyzed many different 
aspects of this game data, including price, genre, positivity and number of reviews, 
and peak players in the last 24 hours. 

## Dependencies

For acquiring and compiling data into a file, we used the WRITE HERE LILY packages.

## Data Collection

We gathered our data about all of the games by web scraping the website 
`https://store.steampowered.com/charts/mostplayed`. From the HTML that this yeilds, we extract 
links to all the games on this list and scrape those URLs too. LILY TYPE HERE ABOUT LIMITING REQUESTS.

The fully processed version of the data we collected is in the file `steam_data.csv`. 
    This data is pre-gathered on the date March 28, 2024. 

To collect new data, run the file `write_csv.py`. **Be warned that this may take up to 
5 minutes to finish running**. 

## Data visualizing 

To fully analyze our data, we created plots of the information we gathered using the `matplotlib` package.
The functions we wrote to create those plots can be found in `analyze_data.py` and `main.py`. 

The plots can be generated by running the code cells found in `Steam_Game_Data_Analysis_Essay.ipynb`, 
there we also further explain how we obtained, extracted, analyzed, and interpeted the data.

## Requirements

The `requirements.txt` file is blank and should be filled out with any project
dependencies. There is a Python package called `pipreqs` that autogenerates the
contents of the `requirements.txt` file based on the `import` statements in your
`.py` files. To get this, run

```
pip install pipreqs
```

Then, in the root of your project repository, run:

```
pipreqs --mode compat
```

If you already have a `requirements.txt`, the above command will ask you to
rerun the command with the `--force` flag to overwrite it.
